Mapping Covid Cases
================

-   Authors: Nicole Tresvalles & Yangyang Lyu
-   Important note: The dataset we used updates daily, and thus the
    analysis might be inconsistent with what is on the map. However, by
    looking at the data every day for a month, we noticed that most of
    the concentration of cases seem to be consistent.

# Introduction

Our analysis focuses on the confirmed COVID-19 cases in seven of the
southern states, taken from [NYTimes
dataset](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data/tree/master/live).
These seven states are key states because according to [Hematology
News](https://www.mdedge.com/hematology-oncology/article/222125/coronavirus-updates/states-vary-vulnerability-covid-19-impact),
these states are among the top 10 states that have the most vulnerable
population. The dataframe we used updates daily, and thus the data
continually changes. As can be seen, most of Florida has the darker
shade of red, meaning it has significantly more cases of the virus for
the current date the data is showing. Furthermore, most of the cases in
Florida appear to be in the counties towards the bottom of the state,
which could be caused by the major cities, such as Orlando, Miami, and
Tampa being located there.

The right side of the map also appear to have heavier amounts of the
darker hues, meaning the states of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and
Alabama have more confirmed cases. Another observation is that the
darker shades appear adjacent to each other, which can be attributed to
the virusâ€™s tendency to be extremely contagious. Being so close
together, can cause more exposure and positive cases. Lastly, the west
of Texas have fewer cases compared to the rest of the Southern region of
the country, which may be due to the fact that those sections are
occupied with significantly less population, as seen by looking at the
[demographics of
Texas](https://worldpopulationreview.com/states/texas-population).
Having less of a population, means less spread of the virus. Overall, by
looking at the data we conclude that the heavily densely populated areas
in the Southern Region of the United States are significantly being more
affected by this virus, compared to the less populated areas.

# The map

![](mapping-covid-cases-%5Blive%5D_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)<!-- -->

# Additional Analysis

We used a
[shapefile](https://www.census.gov/geographies/mapping-files/time-series/geo/carto-boundary-file.html)
to outline the boundaries of the seven specific states we decided to
focus on.
